connections.md, before:

# Stream connections
If we say something like `$stdin >> $stdout`, who owns the fact that these two
things are connected? Presumably whoever's multiplexing FDs. What's the API to
add/remove connections from inside other streams?


## Constraints
1. All graph endpoints are process-entangled.
2. Closed topologies should be first-class data.
3. Graphs should be incrementally constructable, although the IO multiplexer
   doesn't need to care about this.
4. IO multiplexers should consume topology edits as inputs.

One of the big problems here is that these things are independent processes, so
any externally visible degrees of freedom are possible race conditions.

**Q:** is there an explicit compilation step before we delegate to the
multiplexer? That might simplify a lot of this.

**Every negotiation point should have an ID so we can add new connections to
it.**


## Use case: async RPC
Trivially, `source -> fn -> destination` seems reasonable; `fn` can contain
subgraphs/etc. But how do we apply `fn` to every element of an array? We need to
back it into an existing pattern like pooled execution.

...put differently, `map(fn)` is a completely reasonable type of stream node.
`map(_)` just locally modifies IO transaction boundaries, reassembling them on
output.

Commit message:

Drawing a line between negotiation for its own sake and negotiated function calls -- this is likely to be a point of confusion for a while

connections.md, after:

# Stream connections
If we say something like `$stdin >> $stdout`, who owns the fact that these two
things are connected? Presumably whoever's multiplexing FDs. What's the API to
add/remove connections from inside other streams?


## Constraints
1. All graph endpoints are process-entangled.
2. Closed topologies should be first-class data.
3. Graphs should be incrementally constructable, although the IO multiplexer
   doesn't need to care about this.
4. IO multiplexers should consume topology edits as inputs.

One of the big problems here is that these things are independent processes, so
any externally visible degrees of freedom are possible race conditions.

**Q:** is there an explicit compilation step before we delegate to the
multiplexer? That might simplify a lot of this.

**Every negotiation point should have an ID so we can add new connections to
it.**


## Virtual nodes
Let's suppose the IO multiplexer has a stream that opens files: you write `open`
arguments and read the negotiation endpoint. This will block if we're out of
fds. We're using a stream node as a 1:1 function, which seems wrong.

We can mitigate this by creating a virtual `open` node that has only one writer
and only one reader.

**Q:** where do we draw the line between negotiable and nonnegotiable control
flow? In a multiplexed world everything is negotiable -- the only variable is
whether we've decided to condition a process on some resource.

This means `open` isn't a node-as-a-function; `fds_available` is a
sometimes-writable endpoint that you can use with cut-through routers to push
back on fd-allocating processes.


## Use case: async RPC
Trivially, `source -> fn -> destination` seems reasonable; `fn` can contain
subgraphs/etc. But how do we apply `fn` to every element of an array? We need to
back it into an existing pattern like pooled execution.

...put differently, `map(fn)` is a completely reasonable type of stream node.
`map(_)` just locally modifies IO transaction boundaries, reassembling them on
output.
