pushback/io.md, before:

# IO container
An object that manages resource availability/error vectors for real file
descriptors, virtual resources, and timers.

```perl
package pushback::io;
use overload qw/ << add /;
use Time::HiRes qw/time/;

sub new
{
  my ($class, $max_fds) = @_;
  $max_fds //= 1024;
  die "max_fds must be a multiple of 8" if $max_fds & 7;
  my $fdset_bytes = $max_fds + 7 >> 3;
  my $avail = "\0" x ($fdset_bytes * 2);
  my $error = "\0" x ($fdset_bytes * 2);

  bless { virtual_usage  => "\0",
          virtual_offset => $max_fds * 2,
          timers         => [],
          next_timer     => undef,
          multiplexer    => pushback::mux->new($avail, $error),
          files          => [],
          max_fds        => $max_fds,
          fdset_bytes    => $fdset_bytes,

          fds_to_read    => "\0" x $fdset_bytes,
          fds_to_write   => "\0" x $fdset_bytes,
          fds_to_error   => "\0" x $fdset_bytes,
          avail          => \$avail,
          error          => \$error,

          # Views of substrings to enable fast vector operations against parts
          # of $avail and $error.
          fd_ravail => \substr($avail, 0,            $fdset_bytes),
          fd_wavail => \substr($avail, $fdset_bytes, $fdset_bytes),
          fd_rerror => \substr($error, 0,            $fdset_bytes),
          fd_werror => \substr($error, $fdset_bytes, $fdset_bytes),

          # Preallocated memory so we can use in-place bitvector operations.
          fd_rbuf => "\0" x $fdset_bytes,
          fd_wbuf => "\0" x $fdset_bytes,
          fd_ebuf => "\0" x $fdset_bytes }, $class;
}

sub running { shift->{multiplexer}->running }
sub select_loop
{
  my $self = shift;
  while ($self->running)
  {
    my ($r, $w, $e, $timeout) = $self->select_args;

    printf STDERR "r = %s ; w = %s ; e = %s... ",
      join(",", pushback::bit_indexes $$r),
      join(",", pushback::bit_indexes $$w),
      join(",", pushback::bit_indexes $$e);

    select $$r, $$w, $$e, $timeout;

    printf STDERR " -> r = %s ; w = %s ; e = %s\n",
      join(",", pushback::bit_indexes $$r),
      join(",", pushback::bit_indexes $$w),
      join(",", pushback::bit_indexes $$e);

    $self->step;
  }
  $self;
}
```


## File API
```perl
sub read
{
  my ($self, $f) = @_;
  my $fd = fileno $f;
  pushback::set_nonblock $f;
  $$self{files}[$fd] = $f;
  vec($$self{fds_to_read}, $fd, 1) = 1;
  vec($$self{fds_to_error}, $fd, 1) = 1;
  pushback::fd_stream->reader($self, $fd, $fd);
}

sub write
{
  my ($self, $f) = @_;
  my $fd = fileno $f;
  pushback::set_nonblock $f;
  $$self{files}[$fd] = $f;
  vec($$self{fds_to_write}, $fd, 1) = 1;
  vec($$self{fds_to_error}, $fd, 1) = 1;
  pushback::fd_stream->writer($self, $fd, $fd + $$self{max_fds});
}

sub file
{
  my ($self, $fd) = @_;
  $$self{files}[$fd];
}
```


## Processes
```perl
sub add
{
  my ($self, $p) = @_;
  $$self{multiplexer}->add($p);
  $self;
}
```


## Virtual resources
**TODO:** do we want owner objects for these?

```perl
sub create_virtual
{
  my $self  = shift;
  my $index = pushback::next_zero_bit $$self{pid_usage};
  my $id    = $index + $$self{virtual_offset};
  vec($$self{virtual_usage}, $index, 1) = 1;
  vec($$self{avail}, $id, 1) = 0;
  vec($$self{error}, $id, 1) = 0;
  $id;
}

sub delete_virtual
{
  my ($self, $id) = @_;
  vec($$self{virtual_usage}, $id - $$self{virtual_offset}, 1) = 0;
  $self;
}
```


## Timers
```perl
sub time_to_next
{
  undef;          # TODO
}
```


## `select()` interfacing
This class doesn't call `select` -- or at least, doesn't insist on it. Instead,
it gives you the arguments you should use for `select` and gives you an entry
point for the result. For example:

```pl
my ($r, $w, $e, $timeout) = $io->select_args;
select $$r, $$w, $$e, $timeout;
$io->step;
```

```perl
sub select_args
{
  my $self = shift;
  $$self{fd_rbuf} = $$self{fds_to_read};
  $$self{fd_wbuf} = $$self{fds_to_write};
  $$self{fd_ebuf} = $$self{fds_to_error};

  # Remove any fds whose status is already known.
  $$self{fd_rbuf} ^= ${$$self{fd_ravail}};
  $$self{fd_wbuf} ^= ${$$self{fd_wavail}};
  $$self{fd_ebuf} ^= ${$$self{fd_rerror}};

  (\$$self{fd_rbuf}, \$$self{fd_wbuf}, \$$self{fd_ebuf}, $self->time_to_next);
}

sub step
{
  my $self = shift;

  # Assume an external call has updated $$self{fd_rbuf} etc with new fd
  # availability.
  ${$$self{fd_ravail}} |= $$self{fd_rbuf};
  ${$$self{fd_wavail}} |= $$self{fd_wbuf};
  ${$$self{fd_rerror}} |= $$self{fd_ebuf};
  ${$$self{fd_werror}}  = ${$$self{fd_rerror}};

  $$self{multiplexer}->step;
  $self;
}
```

Commit message:

Working out how to do open-ended flow networking

pushback/io.md, after:

# IO container
An object that manages resource availability/error vectors for real file
descriptors, virtual resources, and timers.


## Negotiation
Flow points with in/out exchange negotiation around `offer` and `ask`-style
things. I think both `ask` and `offer` are hard commitments, promising capacity
for the corresponding `read`/`write`. They provide upper bounds.

Each process/object is notified per connection to the flow network. This means
the flow network has no idea which things are connected to which other things.

Something like this in terms of API:

- `read($n, $data)` -> `offered` | `ok($n)` | `eof` | `fail($error)`
- `write($n, $data)` -> `offered` | `ok($n)` | `fail($error)`


## TODO: reduce the scope of stuff below

```perl
package pushback::io;
use overload qw/ << add /;
use Time::HiRes qw/time/;

sub new
{
  my ($class, $max_fds) = @_;
  $max_fds //= 1024;
  die "max_fds must be a multiple of 8" if $max_fds & 7;
  my $fdset_bytes = $max_fds + 7 >> 3;
  my $avail = "\0" x ($fdset_bytes * 2);
  my $error = "\0" x ($fdset_bytes * 2);

  bless { virtual_usage  => "\0",
          virtual_offset => $max_fds * 2,
          timers         => [],
          next_timer     => undef,
          multiplexer    => pushback::mux->new($avail, $error),
          files          => [],
          max_fds        => $max_fds,
          fdset_bytes    => $fdset_bytes,

          fds_to_read    => "\0" x $fdset_bytes,
          fds_to_write   => "\0" x $fdset_bytes,
          fds_to_error   => "\0" x $fdset_bytes,
          avail          => \$avail,
          error          => \$error,

          # Views of substrings to enable fast vector operations against parts
          # of $avail and $error.
          fd_ravail => \substr($avail, 0,            $fdset_bytes),
          fd_wavail => \substr($avail, $fdset_bytes, $fdset_bytes),
          fd_rerror => \substr($error, 0,            $fdset_bytes),
          fd_werror => \substr($error, $fdset_bytes, $fdset_bytes),

          # Preallocated memory so we can use in-place bitvector operations.
          fd_rbuf => "\0" x $fdset_bytes,
          fd_wbuf => "\0" x $fdset_bytes,
          fd_ebuf => "\0" x $fdset_bytes }, $class;
}

sub running { shift->{multiplexer}->running }
sub select_loop
{
  my $self = shift;
  while ($self->running)
  {
    my ($r, $w, $e, $timeout) = $self->select_args;

    printf STDERR "r = %s ; w = %s ; e = %s... ",
      join(",", pushback::bit_indexes $$r),
      join(",", pushback::bit_indexes $$w),
      join(",", pushback::bit_indexes $$e);

    select $$r, $$w, $$e, $timeout;

    printf STDERR " -> r = %s ; w = %s ; e = %s\n",
      join(",", pushback::bit_indexes $$r),
      join(",", pushback::bit_indexes $$w),
      join(",", pushback::bit_indexes $$e);

    $self->step;
  }
  $self;
}
```


## File API
```perl
sub read
{
  my ($self, $f) = @_;
  my $fd = fileno $f;
  pushback::set_nonblock $f;
  $$self{files}[$fd] = $f;
  vec($$self{fds_to_read}, $fd, 1) = 1;
  vec($$self{fds_to_error}, $fd, 1) = 1;
  pushback::fd_stream->reader($self, $fd, $fd);
}

sub write
{
  my ($self, $f) = @_;
  my $fd = fileno $f;
  pushback::set_nonblock $f;
  $$self{files}[$fd] = $f;
  vec($$self{fds_to_write}, $fd, 1) = 1;
  vec($$self{fds_to_error}, $fd, 1) = 1;
  pushback::fd_stream->writer($self, $fd, $fd + $$self{max_fds});
}

sub file
{
  my ($self, $fd) = @_;
  $$self{files}[$fd];
}
```


## Processes
```perl
sub add
{
  my ($self, $p) = @_;
  $$self{multiplexer}->add($p);
  $self;
}
```


## Virtual resources
**TODO:** do we want owner objects for these?

```perl
sub create_virtual
{
  my $self  = shift;
  my $index = pushback::next_zero_bit $$self{pid_usage};
  my $id    = $index + $$self{virtual_offset};
  vec($$self{virtual_usage}, $index, 1) = 1;
  vec($$self{avail}, $id, 1) = 0;
  vec($$self{error}, $id, 1) = 0;
  $id;
}

sub delete_virtual
{
  my ($self, $id) = @_;
  vec($$self{virtual_usage}, $id - $$self{virtual_offset}, 1) = 0;
  $self;
}
```


## Timers
```perl
sub time_to_next
{
  undef;          # TODO
}
```


## `select()` interfacing
This class doesn't call `select` -- or at least, doesn't insist on it. Instead,
it gives you the arguments you should use for `select` and gives you an entry
point for the result. For example:

```pl
my ($r, $w, $e, $timeout) = $io->select_args;
select $$r, $$w, $$e, $timeout;
$io->step;
```

```perl
sub select_args
{
  my $self = shift;
  $$self{fd_rbuf} = $$self{fds_to_read};
  $$self{fd_wbuf} = $$self{fds_to_write};
  $$self{fd_ebuf} = $$self{fds_to_error};

  # Remove any fds whose status is already known.
  $$self{fd_rbuf} ^= ${$$self{fd_ravail}};
  $$self{fd_wbuf} ^= ${$$self{fd_wavail}};
  $$self{fd_ebuf} ^= ${$$self{fd_rerror}};

  (\$$self{fd_rbuf}, \$$self{fd_wbuf}, \$$self{fd_ebuf}, $self->time_to_next);
}

sub step
{
  my $self = shift;

  # Assume an external call has updated $$self{fd_rbuf} etc with new fd
  # availability.
  ${$$self{fd_ravail}} |= $$self{fd_rbuf};
  ${$$self{fd_wavail}} |= $$self{fd_wbuf};
  ${$$self{fd_rerror}} |= $$self{fd_ebuf};
  ${$$self{fd_werror}}  = ${$$self{fd_rerror}};

  $$self{multiplexer}->step;
  $self;
}
```
