pushback/process.md, before:

# Process metaclass
A process is an object that has a 28-bit numeric ID and up to 65536 ports, each
of which may be connected to one other port on one other process. (Multiway
connections involve delegating to a dedicated process to manage
multicast/round-robin/etc.) Processes participate in a 64-bit address space that
describes their location in a distributed context:

```
<host_id : 20> <object_id : 28> <port_id : 16>
```

Individual ID components are always referred to in their final bit locations.
This means host IDs will always have their low 44 bits set to zero.


## Background and architectural considerations
Processes jointly JIT their admittance and flow logic, which means
process/process interaction is for the most part inlined. It's much more
expensive to change port connections than it is to move lots of data within a
fixed topology. (You can mitigate the impact of changes by breaking the inlining
chains, which will cause shorter sections of JIT to be invalidated.)


### Connecting to ports
A connection has exactly two endpoints and monopolizes each port it's connected
to. Connections are encoded as numbers assigned to port vectors within
processes:

```
# connect (process 4: port 43) to (process 91: port 7)
$$object4{ports}[43] = $localhost << 44 | 91 << 16 | 7;
$$object91{ports}[7] = $localhost << 44 | 4  << 16 | 43;
```

Process IDs are always nonzero, so connected ports will have truthy values. `0`
represents a disconnected port.


### Topology changes and JIT
**If you change a port connection inside flow code, that change won't be
reflected until the next flow operation.** Specifically, the contract is that
you have to _enter_ a JIT context to deoptimize an inlined topology. We don't
have a zero-latency retry mechanism, in part because re-entry violates the
transactional nature of negotiated IO.

For the most part this shouldn't cause problems; it's uncommon to change the
topology of a connection while that connection is moving data.


### Memory management and dependency pinning
Most references to processes, particularly through process IDs, aren't strong
enough to pin them into the live set. There are three ways for a process to
persist beyond you holding onto it:

1. It's a "core service" for the IO container, e.g. file IO. Most processes
   aren't core services.
2. It's considered to be an IO-owned side effect, e.g. `each($fn)`. It's then up
   to you to un-pin the process to free it.
3. It's a dependency of a process that's pinned by rules (1) or (2).

...so what's a dependency given that flow direction is ambiguous? The short
answer is that inputs are dependencies. If I say something like
`$stdin->map(...)->grep(...)`, `grep` depends on `map`, which depends on
`$stdin`. `grep` (and by extension, `map`) will go away if I drop my reference
to it.

If, on the other hand, I connect it to `$stdout` (which let's assume is an IO
side effect), then `$stdout` will pin `grep` as a dependency and hold the
reference. At this point the IO container has a full-circuit reference
structure, which is appropriate because it's managing side effects that
presumably live beyond our lexical scope.


```perl
package pushback::process;
no warnings 'portable';
use constant HOST_MASK => 0xffff_f000_0000_0000;
use constant PROC_MASK => 0x0000_0fff_ffff_0000;
use constant PORT_MASK => 0x0000_0000_0000_ffff;

sub new
{
  my ($class, $io) = @_;
  my $self = bless { ports      => [],
                     pins       => {},
                     process_id => 0,
                     io         => $io }, $class;
  $$self{process_id} = $io->add_process($self);
  $self;
}

sub DESTROY
{
  my $self = shift;
  $$self{io}->remove_process($$self{process_id});
  die "TODO: disconnect ports";
}

sub io          { shift->{io} }
sub ports       { shift->{ports} }
sub process_id  { shift->{process_id} }
sub host_id     { shift->{process_id} & HOST_MASK }

sub port_id_for { shift->{process_id} | shift }
sub process_for { shift->{io}->process_for(shift) }

sub connect
{
  my ($self, $port, $destination) = @_;
  return 0 if $$self{ports}[$port];
  $$self{ports}[$port] = $destination;
  $self->process_for($destination)
       ->connect($self, $destination & PORT_MASK, $self->port_id_for($port));
  $self;
}

sub disconnect
{
  my ($self, $port) = @_;
  my $destination = $$self{ports}[$port];
  return 0 unless $destination;
  $$self{ports}[$port] = 0;
  $self->process_for($destination)->disconnect($destination & PORT_MASK);
  $self;
}
```


## Admittance and flow
Ports don't specify a flow direction; in theory they're fully bidirectional if
the process doesn't limit them.

```perl
sub admittance
{
  # TODO
}

sub flow
{
  # TODO
}
```

Commit message:

WIP working out some ambiguity in how we refer to ports and connections

pushback/process.md, after:

# Process metaclass
A process is an object that has a 28-bit numeric ID and up to 65536 ports, each
of which may be connected to one other port on one other process. (Multiway
connections involve delegating to a dedicated process to manage
multicast/round-robin/etc.) Processes participate in a 64-bit address space that
describes their location in a distributed context:

```
<host_id : 20> <object_id : 28> <port_id : 16>
```

Individual ID components are always referred to in their final bit locations.
This means host IDs will always have their low 44 bits set to zero.


## Background and architectural considerations
Processes jointly JIT their admittance and flow logic, which means
process/process interaction is for the most part inlined. It's much more
expensive to change port connections than it is to move lots of data within a
fixed topology. (You can mitigate the impact of changes by breaking the inlining
chains, which will cause shorter sections of JIT to be invalidated.)


### Connecting to ports
A connection has exactly two endpoints and monopolizes each port it's connected
to. Connections are encoded as numbers assigned to port vectors within
processes:

```
# connect (process 4: port 43) to (process 91: port 7)
$$object4{ports}[43] = $localhost << 44 | 91 << 16 | 7;
$$object91{ports}[7] = $localhost << 44 | 4  << 16 | 43;
```

Process IDs are always nonzero, so connected ports will have truthy values. `0`
represents a disconnected port.


### Topology changes and JIT
**If you change a port connection inside flow code, that change won't be
reflected until the next flow operation.** Specifically, the contract is that
you have to _enter_ a JIT context to deoptimize an inlined topology. We don't
have a zero-latency retry mechanism, in part because re-entry violates the
transactional nature of negotiated IO.

For the most part this shouldn't cause problems; it's uncommon to change the
topology of a connection while that connection is moving data.


### Memory management and dependency pinning
Most references to processes, particularly through process IDs, aren't strong
enough to pin them into the live set. There are three ways for a process to
persist beyond you holding onto it:

1. It's a "core service" for the IO container, e.g. file IO. Most processes
   aren't core services.
2. It's considered to be an IO-owned side effect, e.g. `each($fn)`. It's then up
   to you to un-pin the process to free it.
3. It's a dependency of a process that's pinned by rules (1) or (2).

...so what's a dependency given that flow direction is ambiguous? The short
answer is that input-like things are dependencies. If I say something like
`$stdin->map(...)->grep(...)`, `grep` depends on `map`, which depends on
`$stdin`. `grep` (and by extension, `map`) will go away if I drop my reference
to it.

If, on the other hand, I connect it to `$stdout` (which let's assume is an IO
side effect), then `$stdout` will pin `grep` as a dependency and hold the
reference. At this point the IO container has a full-circuit reference
structure, which is appropriate because it's managing side effects that
presumably live beyond our lexical scope.


## Process base class
```perl
package pushback::process;
no warnings 'portable';
use constant HOST_MASK => 0xffff_f000_0000_0000;
use constant PROC_MASK => 0x0000_0fff_ffff_0000;
use constant PORT_MASK => 0x0000_0000_0000_ffff;

sub new
{
  my ($class, $io) = @_;
  my $self = bless { ports      => [],
                     pins       => {},
                     process_id => 0,
                     io         => $io }, $class;
  $$self{process_id} = $io->add_process($self);
  $self;
}

sub DESTROY
{
  my $self = shift;
  $$self{io}->remove_process($$self{process_id});
  die "TODO: disconnect ports";
}

sub io          { shift->{io} }
sub ports       { shift->{ports} }
sub process_id  { shift->{process_id} }
sub host_id     { shift->{process_id} & HOST_MASK }

sub port_id_for { shift->{process_id} | shift }
sub process_for { shift->{io}->process_for(shift) }

sub connect
{
  my ($self, $port, $destination) = @_;
  return 0 if $$self{ports}[$port];
  $$self{ports}[$port] = $destination;
  $self->process_for($destination)
       ->connect($self, $destination & PORT_MASK, $self->port_id_for($port));
  $self;
}

sub disconnect
{
  my ($self, $port) = @_;
  my $destination = $$self{ports}[$port];
  return 0 unless $destination;
  $$self{ports}[$port] = 0;
  $self->process_for($destination)->disconnect($destination & PORT_MASK);
  $self;
}
```


## Writing a process
Let's start with the simplest possible thing: a cut-through version of `cat`
with two ports, `in` and `out`, and one flow path from `in` to `out`. Super,
super simple.

Both flow and admittance are going to be straight passthroughs. So we have
something like this:

```pl
pushback::processclass->new('cat', 'in out')
  ->defadmittance('>stdin', sub {
    # passthrough to stdout
  })
  ->defflow('>stdin', sub {
    # ditto
  });
```

This raises a question: when we describe flow as `>stdin` -- i.e. "into `stdin`"
-- the point of view is clearly from outside the process. This is what we'd
expect since we're defining its interface with the outside world.

But how do we refer to "the thing connected to `stdout`"? It's ambiguous to say
something like `$self->admittance_for('>stdout')`: we might mean "the admittance
we perceive against our outbound `stdout` connection" or we could be describing
"the admittance someone else would perceive if they were sending data to our
`stdout` port."


```perl
sub admittance
{
  # TODO
}

sub flow
{
  # TODO
}
```
